A 23-year-old white female presents with complaint of allergies. This 23-year-old white female presents with complaint of allergies. She used to have allergies when she lived in Seattle but she thinks they are worse here. In the past, she has tried Claritin, and Zyrtec. Both worked for short time but then seemed to lose effectiveness. She has used Allegra also. She used that last summer and she began using it again two weeks ago. It does not appear to be working very well. She has used over-the-counter sprays but no prescription nasal sprays. She does have asthma but doest not require daily medication for this and does not think it is flaring up. Her only medication currently is Ortho Tri-Cyclen and the Allegra. She has no known medicine allergies. Vitals: Weight was 130 pounds and blood pressure 124/78. Her throat was mildly erythematous without exudate. Nasal mucosa was erythematous and swollen. Only clear drainage was seen. TMs were clear.Neck: Supple without adenopathy. Clear. Allergic rhinitis. 1. She will try Zyrtec instead of Allegra again. Another option will be to use loratadine. She does not think she has prescription coverage so that might be cheaper. 2. Samples of Nasonex two sprays in each nostril given for three weeks. A prescription was written as well.
This is a 14-month-old baby boy Caucasian who came in with presumptive diagnosis of Kawasaki with fever for more than 5 days and conjunctivitis, mild arthritis with edema, rash, resolving and with elevated neutrophils and thrombocytosis, elevated CRP and ESR. Kawasaki disease. Kawasaki disease, resolving. This is a 14-month-old baby boy Caucasian who came in with presumptive diagnosis of Kawasaki with fever for more than 5 days and conjunctivitis, mild arthritis with edema, rash, resolving and with elevated neutrophils and thrombocytosis, elevated CRP and ESR. When he was sent to the hospital, he had a fever of 102. Subsequently, the patient was evaluated and based on the criteria, he was started on high dose of aspirin and IVIG. Echocardiogram was also done, which was negative. IVIG was done x1, and between 12 hours of IVIG, he spiked fever again; it was repeated twice, and then after second IVIG, he did not spike any more fever. Today, his fever and his rash have completely resolved. He does not have any conjunctivitis and no redness of mucous membranes. He is more calm and quite and taking good p.o.; so with a very close followup and a cardiac followup, he will be sent home. Ad-lib. PO ad-lib. Aspirin high dose 340 mg q.6h. for 1 day and then aspirin low dose 40 mg q.d. for 14 days and then Prevacid also to prevent his GI from aspirin 15 mg p.o. once a day. He will be followed by his primary doctor in 2 to 3 days. Cardiology for echo followup in 4 to 6 weeks and instructed not to give any vaccine in less than 11 months because of IVIG, all the live virus vaccine, and if he gets any rashes, any fevers, should go to primary care doctor as soon as possible.
A female for a complete physical and follow up on asthma with allergic rhinitis. This is a 42-year-old white female who comes in today for a complete physical and follow up on asthma. She says her asthma has been worse over the last three months. She has been using her inhaler daily. Her allergies seem to be a little bit worse as well. Her husband has been hauling corn and this seems to aggravate things. She has not been taking Allegra daily but when she does take it, it seems to help somewhat. She has not been taking her Flonase which has helped her in the past. She also notes that in the past she was on Advair but she got some vaginal irritation with that.She had been noticing increasing symptoms of irritability and PMS around her menstrual cycle. She has been more impatient around that time. Says otherwise her mood is normal during the rest of the month. It usually is worse the week before her cycle and improves the day her menstrual cycle starts. Menses have been regular but somewhat shorter than in the past. Occasionally she will get some spotting after her cycles. She denies any hot flashes or night sweats with this. In reviewing the chart it is noted that she did have 3+ blood with what appeared to be a urinary tract infection previously. Her urine has not been rechecked. She recently had lab work and cholesterol drawn for a life insurance application and is going to send me those results when available. As above. No fevers, no headaches, no shortness of breath currently. No chest pain or tightness. No abdominal pain, no heartburn, no constipation, diarrhea or dysuria. Occasional stress incontinence. No muscle or joint pain. No concerns about her skin. No polyphagia, polydipsia or polyuria. Significant for asthma, allergic rhinitis and cervical dysplasia. She is married. She is a nonsmoker. Proventil and Allegra. Sulfa. Vital signs: Her weight is 151 pounds. Blood pressure is 110/60. Pulse is 72. Temperature is 97.1 degrees. Respirations are 20. This is a well-developed, well-nourished 42-year-old white female, alert and oriented in no acute distress. Affect is appropriate and is pleasant. Normocephalic, atraumatic. Tympanic membranes are clear. Conjunctivae are clear. Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light. Nares without turbinate edema. Oropharynx is nonerythematous. Supple without lymphadenopathy, thyromegaly, carotid bruit or JVD. Clear to auscultation bilaterally. Regular rate and rhythm without murmur. Soft, nontender, nondistended. Normoactive bowel sounds. No masses or organomegaly to palpation. Without cyanosis or edema. Without abnormalities. Normal symmetrical breasts without dimpling or retraction. No nipple discharge. No masses or lesions to palpation. No axillary masses or lymphadenopathy. Normal external genitalia. The walls of the vaginal vault are visualized with normal pink rugae with no lesions noted. Cervix is visualized without lesion. She has a moderate amount of thick white/yellow vaginal discharge in the vaginal vault. No cervical motion tenderness. No adnexal tenderness or fullness. 1. Asthma. Seems to be worse than in the past. She is just using her Proventil inhaler but is using it daily. We will add Flovent 44 mcg two puffs p.o. b.i.d. May need to increase the dose. She did get some vaginal irritation with Advair in the past but she is willing to retry that if it is necessary. May also need to consider Singulair. She is to call me if she is not improving. If her shortness of breath worsens she is to call me or go into the emergency department. We will plan on following up for reevaluation in one month.2. Allergic rhinitis. We will plan on restarting Allegra and Flonase daily for the time being.3. Premenstrual dysphoric disorder. She may have some perimenopausal symptoms. We will start her on fluoxetine 20 mg one tablet p.o. q.d.4. Hematuria. Likely this is secondary to urinary tract infection but we will repeat a UA to document clearing. She does have some frequent dysuria but is not having it currently.5. Cervical dysplasia. Pap smear is taken We will notify the patient of results. If normal we will go back to yearly Pap smear. She is scheduled for screening mammogram and instructed on monthly self-breast exam techniques. Recommend she get 1200 mg of calcium and 400 U of vitamin D a day.
Chronic glossitis, xerostomia, probable environmental inhalant allergies, probable food allergies, and history of asthma. A 55-year-old female presents self-referred for the possibility of evaluation and treatment of allergies, diminished taste, xerostomia, gastroesophageal reflux disease, possible food allergies, chronic GI irritability, asthma, and environmental inhalant allergies. Please refer to chart for history and physical and review of systems and detailed medical history. 1. Chronic glossitis/xerostomia/probable environmental inhalant allergies/probable food allergies/history of asthma.2. History of fibromyalgia.3. History of peptic ulcer disease, history of gastritis, history of gastroesophageal disease.4. History of chronic fatigue.5. History of hypothyroidism.6. History of depression.7. History of dysphagia. RAST allergy testing was ordered for food allergy evaluation. The patient had previous allergy testing done less than one year ago by Dr. X, which was requested. The patient will follow up after RAST allergy testing for further treatment recommendations. At this point, no changes in her medication were prescribed until her followup visit.
Functional endoscopic sinus surgery with left anterior ethmoidectomy and left mastoid antrostomy for chronic sinusitis and sinus cephalgia 1. Chronic sinusitis.2. Sinus cephalgia. 1. Chronic sinusitis.2. Sinus cephalgia. Functional endoscopic sinus surgery with left anterior ethmoidectomy and left mastoid antrostomy. General endotracheal tube converted from IV sedation. Minimal less than 25 cc. This is a 50-year-old female who has had a history of chronic left facial pain. She has had a history of sinus surgery in the past on the left side. She has been evaluated by oromaxillary facial surgery on which there is no dental source identified. On CT evaluation of the sinuses, she revealed to have chronic inflammation within the left maxillary sinus as well as a hypoplastic maxillary sinus. After all risks, benefits, and alternatives have been discussed at length with the patient, informed consent was obtained. The patient was brought to the Operative Suite, placed in the supine position, where IV sedation was delivered. However, in order to secure the airway, the patient was converted over to general endotracheal tube secondary to anticipated bleeding. The patient was then rotated 90 degrees away, where cotton pledgets saturated with 4 cc of 10% cocaine solution were inserted into the nasal cavities. The nasal septum and the turbinates were then localized with a mixture of 1% lidocaine with 1:100000 epinephrine solution. The patient was then draped in the usual fashion. Attention was directed first to the left nasal cavity in which a 0 degree sinus endoscope was inserted and advanced down to the level of nasopharynx. Inspection of the eustachian tube orifice did not reveal any obstructing lesion. The fossa of the Rosenmüller was within normal limits. The scope was then withdrawn obtaining careful attention to the middle turbinates and middle meatus. The turbinate had lateralized and appeared adhered to the lateral nasal wall. There is no apparent patency of the left maxillary ostium. The uncinate process did appear to be less intact. The scope was further withdrawn and at a point underneath the inferior contrast there appeared to be a sinus opening consistent with previous nasal antral window. Now the middle turbinate was localized with a mixture of 1% lidocaine and epinephrine. The turbinate was then medialized with the use of a Freer elevator. The Olive-tip probe was then used to localize the natural maxillary ostium. The uncinate was then pulled anteriorly. A side-biting forceps was used to bite through the uncinate process, which was then further fractured anteriorly. The uncinate process was then taken down with XPS microdebrider and the natural maxillary ostium was localized. The ostium was then widened with the use of XPS microdebrider as well as use of the straight-biting forceps. Scar tissue was taken down. The ethmoid bone was then entered in the inferior medial aspect with the frayed resection. Once these anterior ethmoid cells were entered, the remainder of the inferior ethmoid cells were taken down with the use of XPS microdebrider, following this the surgical assistant palpated the patient's eyes for any vibration. Once all ethmoid cells had been opened, the scope was withdrawn. Further inspection of the previous nasal antral window was performed. An Olive-tip probe was placed in the opening of this window, and the bone was palpated. At this point, the procedure was felt to be complete. However, inspection of the right nasal cavity was performed. The sinus endoscope was inserted down to the level of the nasopharynx. The patient had excellent patent airway. The eustachian tube was patent and the fossa of Rosenmüller was without any mucosal abnormalities. The turbinate was medialized with a patent maxillary ostium. At this point, all surgical instruments were removed. A Merocel packing was placed in the left nasal cavity for hemostatic purposes with the intent to remove in the recovery. At this point, the patient was returned to the Department of Anesthesia and taken to recovery room without incidence.
Patient having severe sinusitis about two to three months ago with facial discomfort, nasal congestion, eye pain, and postnasal drip symptoms. I had the pleasure of meeting and evaluating the patient referred today for evaluation and treatment of chronic sinusitis. As you are well aware, she is a pleasant 50-year-old female who states she started having severe sinusitis about two to three months ago with facial discomfort, nasal congestion, eye pain, and postnasal drip symptoms. She states she really has sinus problems, but this infection has been rather severe and she notes she has not had much improvement with antibiotics. She had a CT of her paranasal sinuses identifying mild mucosal thickening of right paranasal sinuses with occlusion of the ostiomeatal complex on the right and turbinate hypertrophy was also noted when I reviewed the films and there is some minimal nasal septum deviation to the left. She currently is not taking any medication for her sinuses. She also has noted that she is having some problems with her balance and possible hearing loss or at least ear popping and fullness. Her audiogram today demonstrated mild high frequency sensorineural hearing loss, normal tympanometry, and normal speech discrimination. She has tried topical nasal corticosteroid therapy without much improvement. She tried Allegra without much improvement and she believes the Allegra may have caused problems with balance to worsen. She notes her dizziness to be much worse if she does quick positional changes such as head turning or sudden movements, no ear fullness, pressure, humming, buzzing or roaring noted in her ears. She denies any previous history of sinus surgery or nasal injury. She believes she has some degree of allergy symptoms. Seasonal allergies, possible food allergies, chronic sinusitis, hypertension and history of weight change. She is currently 180 pounds. Lower extremity vein stripping, tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy. Strong for heart disease and alcoholism. DynaCirc. Egg-based products cause hives. The patient used to smoke cigarettes for about 20 years, one-half pack a day. She currently does not, which was encouraged to continue. She rarely drinks any alcohol-containing beverages. VITAL SIGNS: Age 50, blood pressure is 136/74, pulse 84, temperature is 98.4, weight is 180 pounds, and height is 5 feet 3 inches. The patient is healthy appearing; alert and oriented to person, place and time; responds appropriately; in no acute distress. Normocephalic. No masses or lesions noted. No facial tenderness or asymmetry noted. Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation bilaterally. Extraocular movements are intact bilaterally. No nystagmus. During Hallpike examination, the patient did not become dizzy until she would be placed back into sitting in the upright position. No nystagmus was appreciated; however, the patient did subjectively report dizziness, which was repeated twice. No evidence of any orthostatic hypotension was noted during the exam. Tympanic membranes were noted to be intact. No signs of middle ear effusion or ear canal inflammation. The patient appears congested. Turbinate hypertrophy is noted. There are no signs of any acute sinusitis. Septum is midline, slightly deviated to the left. There is clear postnasal drip. Oral hygiene is good. No masses or lesions noted. Both vocal cords move well to midline. The neck is supple with no adenopathy or masses palpated. The trachea is midline. The thyroid gland is of normal size with no nodules. Clear to auscultation bilaterally. No wheeze noted. Regular rate and rhythm. No murmur noted. Facial nerve is intact bilaterally. The remaining cranial nerves are intact without focal deficit. Fiberoptic nasopharyngoscopy identifying turbinate hypertrophy and nasal septum deviation to the left, more significant posteriorly. 1. Probable increasing problems with allergic rhinitis and chronic sinusitis, both contributing to the patient's symptoms.2. Subjective dizziness, etiology uncertain; however, consider positional vertigo versus vestibular neuronitis as possible ear causes of dizziness, cannot rule out systemic, central or medication or causes at this time.3. Inferior turbinate hypertrophy.4. Nasal septum deformity. An ENG was ordered to evaluate vestibular function. She was placed on Veramyst nasal spray two sprays each nostril daily and even twice daily if symptoms are worsening. A Medrol Dosepak was prescribed as directed. The patient was given instruction on use of nasal saline irrigation to be used twice daily and Clarinex 5 mg daily was recommended. After the patients' ENG examination, we will see the patient back for further evaluation and treatment recommendations. In light of the patient's atypical dizziness symptoms, I cannot rule out other pathology at this time, and I informed her if there are any acute changes or problems with regards to her balance or any other acute changes, which she attributes associated with her dizziness, she most likely should pursue an emergent visit to the emergency room.Thank you for allowing me to participate with the care of your patient.
Mother states he has been wheezing and coughing. This 5-year-old male presents to Children's Hospital Emergency Department by the mother with "have asthma." Mother states he has been wheezing and coughing. They saw their primary medical doctor. He was evaluated at the clinic, given the breathing treatment and discharged home, was not having asthma, prescribed prednisone and an antibiotic. They told to go to the ER if he got worse. He has had some vomiting and some abdominal pain. His peak flows on the morning are normal at 150, but in the morning, they were down to 100 and subsequently decreased to 75 over the course of the day. Asthma with his last admission in 07/2007. Also inclusive of frequent pneumonia by report. Up-to-date. Denied. Advair, Nasonex, Xopenex, Zicam, Zithromax, prednisone, and albuterol. Denied. Lives at home, here in the ED with the mother and there is no smoking in the home. No noted exposures. Documented on the template. Systems reviewed on the template. VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 98.7, pulse 105, respiration is 28, blood pressure 112/65, and weight of 16.5 kg. Oxygen saturation low at 91% on room air. This is a well-developed male who is cooperative, alert, active with oxygen by facemask. Head is atraumatic and normocephalic. Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light. Extraocular motions are intact and conjugate. Clear TMs, nose, and oropharynx. Supple. Full painless nontender range of motion. Tight wheezing and retractions heard bilaterally. Regular without rubs or murmurs. Soft, nontender. No masses. No hepatosplenomegaly. Male genitalia is present on a visual examination. No significant bruising, lesions or rash. Moves all extremities without difficulty, nontender. No deformity. Symmetric face, cooperative, and age appropriate. The differential entertained on this patient includes reactive airways disease, viral syndrome, and foreign body pneumonia. He is evaluated in the emergency department with continuous high-dose albuterol, Decadron by mouth, pulse oximetry, and close observation. Chest x-ray reveals bronchial thickening, otherwise no definite infiltrate. She is further treated in the emergency department with continued breathing treatments. At 0048 hours, he has continued tight wheezes with saturations 99%, but ED sats are 92% with coughing spells. Based on the above, the hospitalist was consulted and accepts this patient for admission to the hospital with the working diagnosis of respiratory distress and asthma.
Acute allergic reaction, etiology uncertain, however, suspicious for Keflex. A 34-year-old male presents today self-referred at the recommendation of Emergency Room physicians and his nephrologist to pursue further allergy evaluation and treatment. Please refer to chart for history and physical, as well as the medical records regarding his allergic reaction treatment at ABC Medical Center for further details and studies. In summary, the patient had an acute event of perioral swelling, etiology uncertain, occurring on 05/03/2008 requiring transfer from ABC Medical Center to XYZ Medical Center due to a history of renal failure requiring dialysis and he was admitted and treated and felt that his allergy reaction was to Keflex, which was being used to treat a skin cellulitis dialysis shunt infection. In summary, the patient states he has some problems with tolerating grass allergies, environmental and inhalant allergies occasionally, but has never had anaphylactic or angioedema reactions. He currently is not taking any medication for allergies. He is taking atenolol for blood pressure control. No further problems have been noted upon his discharge and treatment, which included corticosteroid therapy and antihistamine therapy and monitoring. History of urticaria, history of renal failure with hypertension possible source of renal failure, history of dialysis times 2 years and a history of hypertension. PermCath insertion times 3 and peritoneal dialysis. Strong for heart disease, carcinoma, and a history of food allergies, and there is also a history of hypertension. Atenolol, sodium bicarbonate, Lovaza, and Dialyvite. Heparin causing thrombocytopenia. Denies tobacco or alcohol use. VITAL SIGNS: Age 34, blood pressure 128/78, pulse 70, temperature is 97.8, weight is 207 pounds, and height is 5 feet 7 inches. The patient is healthy appearing; alert and oriented to person, place and time; responds appropriately; in no acute distress. Normocephalic. No masses or lesions noted. No facial tenderness or asymmetry noted. Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation bilaterally. Extraocular movements are intact bilaterally. The tympanic membranes are intact bilaterally with a good light reflex. The external auditory canals are clear with no lesions or masses noted. Weber and Rinne tests are within normal limits. The nasal cavities are patent bilaterally. The nasal septum is midline. There are no nasal discharges. No masses or lesions noted. The oral mucosa appears healthy. Dental hygiene is maintained well. No oropharyngeal masses or lesions noted. No postnasal drip noted. The neck is supple with no adenopathy or masses palpated. The trachea is midline. The thyroid gland is of normal size with no nodules. Facial nerve is intact bilaterally. The remaining cranial nerves are intact without focal deficit. Clear to auscultation bilaterally. No wheeze noted. Regular rate and rhythm. No murmur noted. 1. Acute allergic reaction, etiology uncertain, however, suspicious for Keflex.2. Renal failure requiring dialysis.3. Hypertension. RAST allergy testing for both food and environmental allergies was performed, and we will get the results back to the patient with further recommendations to follow. If there is any specific food or inhalant allergen that is found to be quite high on the sensitivity scale, we would probably recommend the patient to avoid the offending agent to hold off on any further reactions. At this point, I would recommend the patient stopping any further use of cephalosporin antibiotics, which may be the cause of his allergic reaction, and I would consider this an allergy. Being on atenolol, the patient has a more difficult time treating acute anaphylaxis, but I do think this is medically necessary at this time and hopefully we can find specific causes for his allergic reactions. An EpiPen was also prescribed in the event of acute angioedema or allergic reaction or sensation of impending allergic reaction and he is aware he needs to proceed directly to the emergency room for further evaluation and treatment recommendations after administration of an EpiPen.
A 23-year-old white female presents with complaint of allergies. This 23-year-old white female presents with complaint of allergies. She used to have allergies when she lived in Seattle but she thinks they are worse here. In the past, she has tried Claritin, and Zyrtec. Both worked for short time but then seemed to lose effectiveness. She has used Allegra also. She used that last summer and she began using it again two weeks ago. It does not appear to be working very well. She has used over-the-counter sprays but no prescription nasal sprays. She does have asthma but doest not require daily medication for this and does not think it is flaring up. Her only medication currently is Ortho Tri-Cyclen and the Allegra. She has no known medicine allergies. Vitals: Weight was 130 pounds and blood pressure 124/78. Her throat was mildly erythematous without exudate. Nasal mucosa was erythematous and swollen. Only clear drainage was seen. TMs were clear. Supple without adenopathy. Clear. Allergic rhinitis. 1. She will try Zyrtec instead of Allegra again. Another option will be to use loratadine. She does not think she has prescription coverage so that might be cheaper.2. Samples of Nasonex two sprays in each nostril given for three weeks. A prescription was written as well.
